Ethics/JD Olson/Ethics-Week5-JD.md, before:

## Scenario  
You are a Computer Science professor at a local university teaching C Sharp to some very smart business students. In the second week of class, you spend an entire lecture with your students exhaustively talking about software plagiarism and copyright law with a Christian intellectual property attorney who makes it truly clear that taking code from another developer or site then calling it your own is not only legally wrong but morally wrong. In addition, your institution publishes the following policy:

Plagiarism includes using someone else's data file as your own or representing the work of others as your own.

The penalty for violating the academic integrity code is severe. Any student violating the academic integrity code may receive a failing grade for the course and will be reported. If a student is unclear about whether a particular situation may constitute an academic integrity violation, the student should meet with the instructor to discuss the situation.

For this class, it is permissible to assist classmates in general discussions and such general advice and interaction is encouraged. Each person, however, must develop his or her own solutions to the assigned projects, assignments, and tasks. In other words, students may not "work together" on graded assignments unless specifically assigned to a group task by the course instructor. Such unauthorized collaboration would constitute cheating. A student may not use or copy (by any means) another's work (or portions of it) and represent it as his or her own.

Then this

Just a week or two into class, one of your students submits an assignment that is very good. Too good? You check and discover the code is identical to a C# tutorial on the internet. It is clear the student copied the code. The writing is on the wall. But remember, you love this student: you don't want to overreact. But you love your other students too: you want to be fair. You are also a new professor at this university: you don't want to underreact. A lot to think about. What do you do?

## Three Possible Responses  

### **Option 1: Ask to speak to the student in private and allow them to explain**   
#### Pros: 
-  Displays initial trust in the students ethical compass
-  Places an emphasis on discretion

#### Cons:
-  Might be a waste of time if the signs are obvious enough
-  Might not get the full story 
#### Script:
**Me:** Hey (Student), I was wondering if we could speak in private about your assignment.  

**Student:** Ok sure, we can do that.

**Me:** I just wanted you to explain why your assignment looks almost like a 1 for 1 copy of the (Youtube Video) and why that might have happened?

**Student:** Ok, so basically I didn't have any time and just copied the Youtube video.  


#### Scripture Reference:  
-  Proverbs 12:17 (NIV):  "An honest witness tells the truth, but a false witness tells lies.”

#### First Principle: 
-  It is best to allow people to tell the truth

---

### **Option 2: Allow the student to come forward and ask you questions and explain themselves, then reiterate the rules**
#### Pros:
- Creates an opportunity for grace to abound and a second chance to be accepted
- Will eliminate any confusion going forward

#### Cons:
- May lead to more of these situations happening if other students hear about the situation
- Student may never come forward which defeats the purpose of letting them come to you

#### Script: 
**Student:** Hey, I had a question about my assignment and what we can and can't use as resources to influence our assignments. 

**Me:** Ok i would love to help clarify any questions you might have.  

**Student:** Ok so I used a Youtube video as inspiration and guidance on how to complete the assignment but im not sure if that is ok, i needed to get it done and it was very helpful and i learned alot from it.

**Me:** Well thank you for coming to me about this, I would be happy to rephrase the rules for you and then we can go from there

#### **Scripture Reference:**  
-   2 Corinthians 12:9 (NIV): "But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness”"


#### **First Principle:**  
-  We can have grace for others because God has endless amounts of grace for us 

---

### **Option 3: Both check in on your co-worker and work hard at keeping the customer**  
#### Pros: 
-  Will hopefully make things pan out for the business to keep the relationship
-  Can create a good outcome for your co-worker 
-  May be a win-win scenario for both the business and your co-worker

#### Cons: 
-  Typically you cannot always make everything work perfectly everytime so this choice has some potential issues

#### Script: 
**Me:** Hey (co-worker), just wanted to check in and get you connected with some mental health professionals so that you can beat this depression, I am also going to work hard to make this deal work out between us and the customer.  

**Co-worker:** Wow thank you, that is so nice of you, and yes i am sure this will work out.  

**Me:** Great, so glad i can help in any way, let me know if you need anything else while i am working.  


#### **Scripture Reference:**  
-  1 Timothy 4:15-16 (NIV). "Be diligent in these matters; give yourself wholly to them, so that everyone may see your progress. Watch your life and doctrine closely. Persevere in them, because if you do, you will save both yourself and your hearers."

#### **First Principle:**  
- We can be diligent in all we do and even though sometimes we cannot do everything

---

## **Excursus:**  
- This scenario could either end really well, or very poorly depending on your solution
- This probably happens quite often and is simply part of interacting with other humans in the workplace
- With the proper measures, this outcome could be positive

---

## **My Choice: Option 3 **  
- I think combining a bit of option 1 and 2 into option 3 would be the best choice because it covers all the ethical issues
- I would make sure the co-worker is ok and then focus heavily on supporting the project since the two choices are not mutually exclusive.

Commit message:

Finished Week 5 Ethics and spell check

Ethics/JD Olson/Ethics-Week5-JD.md, after:

## Scenario  
You are a Computer Science professor at a local university teaching C Sharp to some very smart business students. In the second week of class, you spend an entire lecture with your students exhaustively talking about software plagiarism and copyright law with a Christian intellectual property attorney who makes it truly clear that taking code from another developer or site then calling it your own is not only legally wrong but morally wrong. In addition, your institution publishes the following policy:

Plagiarism includes using someone else's data file as your own or representing the work of others as your own.

The penalty for violating the academic integrity code is severe. Any student violating the academic integrity code may receive a failing grade for the course and will be reported. If a student is unclear about whether a particular situation may constitute an academic integrity violation, the student should meet with the instructor to discuss the situation.

For this class, it is permissible to assist classmates in general discussions and such general advice and interaction is encouraged. Each person, however, must develop his or her own solutions to the assigned projects, assignments, and tasks. In other words, students may not "work together" on graded assignments unless specifically assigned to a group task by the course instructor. Such unauthorized collaboration would constitute cheating. A student may not use or copy (by any means) another's work (or portions of it) and represent it as his or her own.

Then this

Just a week or two into class, one of your students submits an assignment that is very good. Too good? You check and discover the code is identical to a C# tutorial on the internet. It is clear the student copied the code. The writing is on the wall. But remember, you love this student: you don't want to overreact. But you love your other students too: you want to be fair. You are also a new professor at this university: you don't want to underreact. A lot to think about. What do you do?

## Three Possible Responses  

### **Option 1: Ask to speak to the student in private and allow them to explain**   
#### Pros: 
-  Displays initial trust in the students ethical compass
-  Places an emphasis on discretion

#### Cons:
-  Might be a waste of time if the signs are obvious enough
-  Might not get the full story 
#### Script:
**Me:** Hey (Student), I was wondering if we could speak in private about your assignment.  

**Student:** Ok sure, we can do that.

**Me:** I just wanted you to explain why your assignment looks almost like a 1 for 1 copy of the (Youtube Video) and why that might have happened?

**Student:** Ok, so basically I didn't have any time and just used the Youtube video.  


#### Scripture Reference:  
-  Proverbs 12:17 (NIV):  "An honest witness tells the truth, but a false witness tells lies.”

#### First Principle: 
-  It is best to allow people to tell the truth

---

### **Option 2: Allow the student to come forward and ask you questions and explain themselves, then reiterate the rules**
#### Pros:
- Creates an opportunity for grace to abound and a second chance to be accepted
- Will eliminate any confusion going forward

#### Cons:
- May lead to more of these situations happening if other students hear about the situation
- Student may never come forward which defeats the purpose of letting them come to you

#### Script: 
**Student:** Hey, I had a question about my assignment and what we can and can't use as resources to influence our assignments. 

**Me:** Ok i would love to help clarify any questions you might have.  

**Student:** Ok so I used a Youtube video as inspiration and guidance on how to complete the assignment but im not sure if that is ok, i needed to get it done and it was very helpful and i learned alot from it.

**Me:** Well thank you for coming to me about this, I would be happy to rephrase the rules for you and then we can go from there

#### **Scripture Reference:**  
-   2 Corinthians 12:9 (NIV): "But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness”"


#### **First Principle:**  
-  We can have grace for others because God has endless amounts of grace for us 

---

### **Option 3: Talk things over with the head administrator to see what the best course of action might be**  
#### Pros: 
-  Allows you to show your committment to making the right decision for the school
-  Might gain some valuable insights you can take into the next scenario

#### Cons: 
-  May show lack of independent decision making skills

#### Script: 
**Me:** Hey (Head Administrator), I have a current situation involving work that has been copied from a youtube video and was wondering what the best course of action might be.  

**Head Admin:** Understood, I think this will be a great experience for you to handle but i will help guide you along the way.  

**Me:** Thank you, I just really want to make the right choice.  


#### **Scripture Reference:**  
-  Matthew 7:7-12  (NIV). "Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you"

#### **First Principle:**  
- Sometimes all we can do is go and seek guidance from someone we respect

---

## **Excursus:**  
- This is certainly a tough scenario and requires much discernment as to the action that should be taken
- It is probably best to hear all the information and gather as much evidence as possible before making a decision

---

## **My Choice: Option 1 **  
- I think option one is probably best as it addresses the issue immediatly and allows the student to explain themselves
- It would also be wise to potentially incorporate the re-iteration of the rules like in option 2 in this one as well
